How to Install Nagios 4.4.3 on CentOS 7 (#114)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/how-to-install-nagios-on-centos-7/01.en.md

To install Nagios on your server, make sure you are logged into your server with a sudo user.

This guide is based on SELinux being disabled or in permissive mode. To disable SELinux using below command:

```
sed -i 's/SELINUX=.*/SELINUX=disabled/g' /etc/selinux/config
setenforce 0
```

## Step 1 - Install Required Dependencies

We need to install Apache, PHP and some libraries like gcc, glibc, glibc-common and GD libraries and its development libraries before installing Nagios with source. And to do so, we can use yum default package installer.

First, install the required packages:

```
yum install -y httpd httpd-tools php gcc glibc glibc-common gd gd-devel make net-snmp openssl-devel xinetd unzip
```

## Step 2 - Create Nagios User and Group

We must create a user and group that will run the Nagios process. Create a **"**nagios** user and **nagcmd**"** group with these commands:

```
useradd nagios
groupadd nagcmd
```

Then add both the **nagios** user and the **apache** user to the **nagcmd** group.

Then add the user to the group with these commands:

```
usermod -G nagcmd nagios
usermod -G nagcmd apache
```

## Step 3 - Download Nagios Core and Nagios Plugin

> Download latest Nagios Core 4.3.4 and Nagios plugins 2.2.1 packages. Go to the [Nagios downloads page](http://www.nagios.org/download/core-stay-informed), and click the Skip to download link below the form. Copy the link address for the latest stable release so you can download it to your Nagios server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download latest Nagios Core 4.3.4 and Nagios plugins 2.2.1 packages. Go to the [Nagios downloads page](https://www.nagios.org/download/core-stay-informed), and click the Skip to download link below the form. Copy the link address for the latest stable release so you can download it to your Nagios server.
```

Reviewer: Better use https by default. Also I don't get this form you are talking about with this link. Do you really get it?

Author: Edited.

```
make all
```

Now we can run these **make** commands to install Nagios, init scripts, and sample configuration files:

```
make install
make install-init
make install-commandmode
make install-config
make install-webconf
```

## Step 5 - Customizing Nagios Configuration

Open the "contacts.cfg" file with your choice of editor and set the email address associated with the nagiosadmin contact definition to receiving email alerts.

```
vi /usr/local/nagios/etc/objects/contacts.cfg
```

Sample Output:

```
###############################################################################
#
# CONTACTS
#
###############################################################################

# Just one contact defined by default - the Nagios admin (that's you)
# This contact definition inherits a lot of default values from the
# 'generic-contact' template which is defined elsewhere.

define contact {

    contact_name            nagiosadmin             ; Short name of user
    use                     generic-contact         ; Inherit default values from generic-contact template (defined above)
    alias                   Nagios Admin            ; Full name of user

>     email                   eng.fakhraei@gmail.com  ; <<***** CHANGE THIS TO YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS ******

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    email                   admin@example.com  ; <<***** CHANGE THIS TO YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS ******
```

Author: Edited.
